So today we're gonna be
learning to test with Jest.
I'm fine if you don't like Jest.
There's a lot of people out there that
have very strong opinions on testing
frameworks, and I am not one of them.
I use Jest because I have used Jest.
That sounds like a weak reason,
it's because it is a weak reason.
[LAUGH] But I've used Moca, I've never
used other professionally but people that
use it seem to quite like it I've never
used no tape or no tap or any of those.
But again all of them
seem to work fairly well.
Jest has more batteries included that it
kinda does a lot of the things for you.
It's also put out by
the Facebook team themselves.
So that means that it's
frequently used with React.
But again, I really don't have
a strong opinion on the matter.
It is helpful to know that Jest
is built on top of Jasmine.
So if you have questions about
the specific testing helpers and
all that kinda stuff, or if you wanna
use a library that augments Jasmine
generally it will just work
with Jest out of the box.
So you can think of just as
the framework around Jasmine.
Okay, so we have our product here,
we ran node module or
npm install to get our node modules and
we're going to install Jest.
So we're going to npm
install dash capital D,
and we're going to do Jest at 27.5.1.
And we're gonna
install @testing-library/react@12.1.3
Okay, so Jest is a testing framework, and
then you need like some specific
like helpers to work with React.
We used to use a thing called enzyme and
previous versions of this
course I taught enzyme.
It was a library put up by Airbnb
to make it easier to test React.
And it was way better than
what was available before.
But then the open source community
came out with testing library,
which ended up being even more useful.
So we're gonna use that.
And in general,
people don't use enzyme anymore.
So if you do happen to
a company that is using enzyme,
my suggestion to you is try and
get them on testing library.
It's just way easier to work with.
Okay, that gets us starting here.
Testing libraries/react used to be
called react dash testing dash library.
They just renamed it because now there's
like testing library dash angular
testing library dash svelte.
They make all of those helpers now.
Okay, so inside of your source
directory I want you to create a new
directory called underscore underscore
tests underscore underscore.
Now why the weird nomenclature?
Well, we talked a little
bit about this before.
It's the Dunder,
write the double underscore,
which is more of a Python construct
than it is a JavaScript construct,
but we're borrowing from the Python
community in this particular case.
It just the double underscores on
both sides just means like this is
a magic name.
Something special will happen
if you name it this, so
in other words please do not rename this,
right?
Or else you're gonna break something.
So in this particular case
everything in underscore test,
Jest is gonna assume everything that lives
in that live, in that directory is a test.
So it will run everything in there.
It will also, if you make something
called model.test.JS, it will
also assume because you put the dot
test dot JS in there that that's a test,
but it's very contingent on you naming
it something that Jest can find.
I'm fine with either way.
I tend to do this underscore
under square test.
Cause I like all my
tests to live together.
But you can disagree with that and
I'm fine with that.
Cool, we do need to set up Babel
to run on our tests, right?
Because we're gonna be trying to run
React and JSX in a Node environment.
Right, so we have to set up so
that Babel knows how to do that.
So I want you to pop
into your Babel RC here.
And what we're gonna do here
is we're gonna put in nth.
This is gonna run specific Babel rules
whenever node F is equal to test,
that's what this is going to do.
And we're gonna have to tell it for
our presets with at Babel
l sash preset dash mth.
Okay, there's that and then another
one here this is gonna be an object.
No, sorry, that's what that is.
This is also an array, it is.
The way you set up
a configuration in Babel RCs,
it's a lot of curly braces and
square brackets.
Okay, and
then we're gonna have to tell it targets.
Sorry, this is an object.
Targets.
Node current.
Okay.
Now that we've kinda set this up,
we also have to tell it what to do in a
normal environment as well unfortunately.
So, we're gonna have to set this
up here as well of presets.
It's gonna look really similar.
It's a comma there.
@babble/preset-react, I actually
don't think we need to do this.
Let's try to see what happens.
Something might correct us here but
what we'll see.
All right, so
I think now you do have to say npm
install at babble slash preset -mth.
And you actually should
do that with a dash D.
So let me fix that really quick,
npm on babble slash preset mth.
Okay, so now what we wanna do
is we're going to package.JSON.
And we're gonna make a test command.
And that is going to just be Jest and
Jest might have to figure everything else.
And we'll make one more command here,
which is test watch.
Because Jest has a really cool function
called watch, that we wanna use as well.
So a fun fact, npm has a couple
shorthands, npm i is one I've been
showing you, but if you do npm t,
it'll run whatever is in tests.
So instead of saying npm run tests
like this, you can do npm t and
that'll run your test command.
Okay, so
this is what we expect to say is like,
hey I could not find any tests that's
true we haven't written one so
let's go ahead and go and
try and write one.
So, before we get too much into the
specific syntax of writing a Jest test for
React, let me explain to you my
methodology of testing UI code,
which is hard won over years of
writing a lot of tests and UI code.
The worst thing in
the world is a bad test.
It's way worse than having
no test in my opinion.
Because if you have a bad test, that means
you don't trust your tests in general.
And when you don't trust your tests, that
means when you actually do have a problem,
you're not gonna believe your test suite,
right?
You're gonna say,
they're just being finicky again.
You're gonna ignore it and you actually
was catching a problem for you.
So in general, I try and write as few
tests as possible to that give me as much
confidence in my code as possible.
And when I have a bad or finicky test,
I either need to fix it or delete it.
And there's like no two ways about that.
So I'm kinda a testing minimalist.
I try not to test implementation
details like I try not to test like
internal state of like a code of like
if this goes from this hook inside my
React code goes from A to B.
I try not to test stuff like that.
I tried to test things which are more
like the user clicked this button and
expected this thing to happen, right?
So it's more told from a user story
perspective than a developer story kinda
perspective.
Every bit of UI that I've
ever worked on changes a lot.
So I really try not to test user
interfaces cuz I don't like the thrash of
trying to update tests
as interfaces change.
I instead try and test,
can the user log in?
Can the user find their name?
Can the user change their email, right?
These things that a user would care about.
I try and
test things that are important, right?
Like, it's maybe it's not important that
a user can go from light mode to dark mode
or I don't know, something like that.
But I'm much more concerned
about can a user login.
Like things are absolutely critical, I'd
rather have five tests covering something
important than five tests that cover a
bunch of things that aren't in important.
Which is a different way of me saying,
I don't believe in 100% test coverage.
I think that's a fool's errand, and
I think it's just a vanity metric.
Cuz I can give you 100% test coverage
with that tell you nothing, or
I can give you 10% test coverage
that tells you everything.
I prefer the latter.
So I'm just disclaiming my feelings about
testing because it's a bit hostile.
[LAUGH] And people disagree with me but
I'm gonna to teach you that
with my personal bias there.
So if you disagree with me just take it
with a grain of salt that's appropriate.